---
layout: page
permalink: /about/
title: About Jon
tags: []
image:
  feature: abstract-5.jpg
  credit: dargadgetz
  creditlink: http://www.dargadgetz.com/ios-7-abstract-wallpaper-pack-for-iphone-5-and-ipod-touch-retina/
share: true
---

## The Skinny

I'm a web developer and consultant living and working in Portland, Oregon. I'm
all about high tech and the open web. I spend a lot of time learning; I'm
always searching for "the most effective." It's more a mentality than a
destination. My technical background is diverse. Here are some things I've
done: front-end apps, API development, devops, and enterprise data warehousing.
I prefer open source when possible; it's beautiful when done well. Feel free to
contact me, I'm always up for a good conversation!


### My Past

While growing up, I always loved technology. I learned to convince my parents
to buy the "latest and greatest" gadgets, when possible, so I could feed my
burning desire for 1s and 0s. In high school, I did two years of the Cisco
Networking Academy. I got to play with stuff ranging from gigantic 32 port hubs
to quad processor (when I was a kid this was nuts) Sun servers. This love
eventually developed in to a career choice when I began the computer science
program at Oregon State University in 2006. After completing my first year in
computer science, I realized I loved interacting with humans as well as
computers. In light of this, I changed my major to business information systems
to discover a meaningful fusion between business and computing. Three years
later I completed my college education with a semester abroad in Sweden. I
graduated with a BS in business information systems and international business.


### My Present

I eventually ended up in Portland after my adventures abroad. That's when I met
my lovely wife. And as they say, the rest was history. I now work as a Senior
Software Engineer for AppNexus here in Portland where I am work mostly on
building front-end applications. I am passionate about data and technology. So
much so, I often learn it in my spare time; I even dream about it. Yikes.

Most importantly, I love Jesus. I love everything about Him. I keep asking Him
to change me, from the inside out, to be more like Him. It's a journey I'll be
on until I die. And it's the best journey to be found.

