---
layout: post
title: A Moment in Time
description: "Recently I discovered a JavaScript library that changed the way I see dates. Let me tell you about it and show you my favorite features."
modified: 2013-06-25
tags: [javascript momentjs dates]
image:
  feature: abstract-1.jpg
  credit: dargadgetz
  creditlink: http://www.dargadgetz.com/ios-7-abstract-wallpaper-pack-for-iphone-5-and-ipod-touch-retina/
comments: true
share: true
---

# A Moment in Time

I recently discovered a JavaScript library that changed the way I see dates. A few weeks ago I was trying to find a simplified way to work with dates in JavaScript, my searching led to [Moment.js](http://momentjs.com/), and one of features had a profound effect on me: simple, relative dates. More on that later. Moment.js allows you to do pretty much everything you ever wanted when working with dates in JavaScript. You can do things like:

- Easily parse custom date strings
- Add or subtract days, weeks, months, years, etc.
- Format dates
- Get dates for simple requests like, "give me the date and time for the beginning of today."
- Tell you how long ago a particular date was from right now. Ex. "3 days ago" or "last Wednesday at 8:00 AM"

Generally when I'm working on a project that has some date to display, I simply list out the entire date and time stamp. The problem with this approach is that it doesn't give the viewer much context. 80% of the time when I'm looking at a date, I want to know what its relation is to me, right now. Moment.js helped me see the value of doing this kind of formating. It also made it dead freakin' simple.

## Top 5 Moment.js Functions

Moment.js' functions typically return either a string or an object that contains the date you are working with, and a bunch of metadata about that date. That object can be recognized and piped through most Moment.js functions. The `_d` property on that object is the JavaScript date literal. If you simply call `moment()` this will return a moment.js for the current date and time, like `new Date()`.  

#### Date Parsing

```javascript
moment('2013-01-01', 'YYYY-MM-DD');
moment('01/22/2013 18:45', 'MM/DD/YYYY HH:mm');
var myMomentDate = moment('2013-01-01', 'YYYY-MM-DD');
```

This is especially useful when you are getting strangely formatted dates from various sources. Once you have your date as a `moment` object, you're golden.  

#### Adding to Dates

```javascript
moment().add('days', 10);
moment().subtract('weeks', 5);
```

I've seen this kind of date formatting in various other programming languages, but this is my favorite syntax by far.  

#### Humanizing Dates

```javascript
moment().calendar(); // -> 'Today at 9:03 AM'
moment().subtract('days', 2).calendar(); // -> 'last Tuesday at 8:57 PM'
```

Now we're really cookin! This auto formatting falls somewhere between date-time literals and the `fromNow()` function, in terms of verbosity.  

#### Start/End Of

```javascript
moment().startOf('day');
moment().endOf('month');
moment().endOf('week');
```

More stuff you would hope to easily do with dates. Bring on the joy.  

#### From Now

```javascript
moment('2013-01-01').fromNow(); // -> '6 months ago'
moment().add('minutes', 35).fromNow(); // -> 'in 35 minutes'
```

This is my favorite feature. I've come to believe that this is the fastest way to consume a date. It gives your viewer context that's instantly meaningful. This is the one that got me thinking about how awesome simple, relative dates can be. Moment.js makes it really, really easy. So, in the words of [Jonsi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_Do), "go do!"

